---
title: "Automators 33: Packing List Extravaganza in Drafts"
last_modified_at: 2021-10-10 00:00
date: 2019-09-27 20:00
type: post
published: true
layout: post
artwork: automators
tags:
  - Automators
  - Podcast
redirect_from:
  - "/2019/09/27/automators-33.html"
---


  It's no secret that I love to travel - and I also love to be organized! Making
  a packing list is great fun, until you forget something so in this episode of
  Automators David and I decided to find as many ways as we could to solve the
  problem of creating a packing list. Naturally our techniques overlapped in a
  few places, but we still came up with a variety of solutions - which you can
  use to solve other problems too.  

<!--more-->

  I've documented most of the Shortcuts in the show notes for this episode, but
  my Drafts action group (and accompanying Shortcut) need a little more space -
  so let's dive in!  

  First of all, no matter how organised I might be I still need a task in my
  task management system to actually do the packing, so I kick off my process
  with a Shortcut, it looks through my calendar for all day events, I choose one
  of them, and then it creates a new Draft (tagged with <code>packing</code>)
  before adding a task to OmniFocus with the title "Pack", a due date of the
  start date of the trip, and a link to my Draft in the note. You can download
  the Shortcut here:
  <a href="https://www.icloud.com/shortcuts/fdd67dbb01c14d749566441a07cfd1e9"
    >Create Packing List (Drafts &amp; OF)</a
  >  

  Now let's look at my Drafts action group, this has 8 actions (I've expanded a
  little since recording).  

  **Manage Template List**


  This gets you started with creating your basic lists if you don't have them
  yet - you choose categories (it suggests Clothes, Toiletries, and Technology),
  and then set the emoji for each category before adding items to it.


  If you already have a list you get 4 choices:  
<ul>
  <li>
    Add category - Asks you for the name of the category, an emoji to represent
    it, and items to add to it.
  </li>
  <li>
    Update Emoji - Shows you all your categories and the emojis associated with
    them for editing.
  </li>
  <li>Delete Category - Gives you a choice of categories to delete.</li>
  <li>
    Manage Category Items - Allows you to add or remove items in a category as
    well as correct spelling.
  </li>
</ul>

  None of these actions affect anything in any of your packing list - maybe
  someday I'll get to it, but not yet.  
Tips:  
<ul>
  <li>
    To find emoji quickly use <a href="https://emojipedia.org/">Emojipedia</a>,
    it has a great search and you can copy the emoji with just a tap.
  </li>
  <li>
    Add a 🔋 emoji after anything that needs charging - I have a few actions to
    help you keep track of those.
  </li>
</ul>

**Tag Packing List**  

  This just adds the tag "packing" to your Draft so you can filter for these
  quickly.  

**Add Packing Items to List**  

  This shows you a prompt with a list of your categories, you tap a category,
  deselect items within that category you do not wish to include (I assumed that
  you'll likely want all items in a category), and the items are added to your
  list. After this it runs the action "Sort Packing Items" automatically.  

**Sort Packing Items**  

  You might be wondering why I'm bothering to assign emoji to my categories -
  aside from "they're cute". It's simple: Emoji are sortable. So everything with
  a 👖 tag is grouped together. This way I can both visually identify items in a
  category, and the sort action (which is alphabetical) groups them together.
  All the items are in the task format in Drafts, this looks something like
  this:  
<pre>
  - [ ] 👖 Jeans
  - [x] 👖 TShirt
  - [ ] 🛀 Shampoo
</pre>

  Tapping on one of the <code>[ ]</code> boxes checks it off (<code>[x]</code>)
  or unchecks it. The _x_ is sorted below the space so unchecked items
  stay at the top.  

**Uncheck All**  

  I like to reuse my packing list on the way home to make sure I don't forget
  anything and that everything is charged, this unchecks everything, resets
  charging icons, and sorts the list again for me.  

**What should I charge?**  

  Maybe I travel with too much tech, but I do travel with a lot and most of it
  needs charging - after all, what good is a battery pack that isn't charged?
  Everything that needs charging has a 🔋 icon at the end of it, this action
  grabs all of those items and shows them to me, selecting one replaces the
  battery with a 🔌 emoji, so I can see it is ready.  

**Charge**  

  For items that you add outside of your list you may wish to add the battery
  emoji, instead of hunting though your keyboard for it use this action. It will
  also replace the battery with a plug or vice versa.  

**Delete Item**  
This just deletes the current row in Drafts.  


  This all works with scripts in Drafts, I can't guarantee it will work
  perfectly so I would love to hear your feedback!  


  To hear more about ways to create packing lists listen to
  <a href="https://relay.fm/automators/33"
    >Automators 33: Packing List Extravaganza</a
  >. Thanks to our sponsors for this week's episode: ExpressVPN and Daylite.  
