---
layout: post
title: "iOS Today 699: Great Adventures With iOS - AllTrails, First Aid, OS Maps, Guru Maps, National Trust"
date: 2024-04-18T18:00:00.000Z
type: post
artwork: ios_today
tags:
  - iOS Today
  - Podcast
---
In [episode 699 iOS Today](https://twit.tv/shows/ios-today/episodes/699)...
In this exciting episode of iOS Today, Mikah Sargent and Rosemary Orchard embark on a thrilling adventure, exploring a range of iOS apps and features designed to enhance your outdoor experiences. From hiking trails and pollen forecasts to offline maps and home security, they cover it all. Join them as they share their top picks and dive into the world of iOS shortcuts to help you make the most of your devices.

*   AllTrails: A popular app for finding nearby trails, with filters for distance, difficulty, and attractions. It offers trail information, photos, and offline downloads for Plus subscribers.
*   OS Maps by Ordnance Survey: Great Britain's official mapping app, providing offline access to maps, routes, and public transport information. It also integrates with CarPlay for easy navigation.
*   First Aid by American Red Cross: A free app offering a comprehensive guide to administering first aid in various situations, with quizzes and training classes available.
*   Guru Maps & Navigation Offline: An offline map app that allows users to download maps for cities and regions worldwide, ensuring access to navigation even without an internet connection.
*   My Pollen Forecast Pro: An app that provides local pollen forecasts, helping users track allergens and potential triggers. It offers a companion Apple Watch app for on-the-go information.
*   National Trust - Days Out App: A UK-specific app that helps users discover events and historical sites managed by the National Trust organization.

Shortcuts Corner:

*   Ron's request for a shortcut to adjust alarm volume or output based on whether he's wearing earbuds. Rosemary suggests using the sleep alarm feature or creating an automation to play a song on a HomePod when the alarm goes off.
*   Steve's request for a way to manage notifications from home sensors during bedtime to monitor an elderly family member with dementia. Rosemary advises setting up activity notifications for specific sensors within the Home app.

**Hosts:** [Mikah Sargent](https://twit.tv/people/mikah-sargent) and [Rosemary Orchard](https://twit.tv/people/rosemary-orchard)

Want access to the video version and exclusive features? Become a member of Club TWiT today! [https://twit.tv/clubtwit](https://twit.tv/clubtwit)

[Club TWiT](https://twit.tv/clubtwit) members can discuss this episode and leave feedback in the [Club TWiT Discord](https://twit.memberful.com/account/discord/authorize).

You can also contribute to _iOS Today_ by sending an email to [iOSToday@TWiT.tv](mailto:iOSToday@TWiT.tv).